Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-cse-340-project-4
<br>
5/5 - (1 vote)

The goal of this project is to give you some hands-on experience with implementing a small compiler. You will write a compiler for a simple language. You will not be generating assembly code. Instead, you will generate an intermediate representation (a data structure that represents the program). The execution of the program will be done after compilation by interpreting the generated intermediate representation.

1 IntroductionYou will write a small compiler that will read an input program and represent it in an internal data structure. The data structure consists of two parts: (1) a representation of instructions to be executed and (2) a representation of the memory of the program (locations for variables).Instructions are represented by a data structure that includes the operand(s) of the instruction (if any) and that specify the next instruction to be executed. After the data structures are generated by your compiler, your compiler will execute the generated instructions representation by interpreting it. This means that the program will traverse the data structure and at every node it visits, it will execute the node by changing the content of memory locations corresponding to operands and deciding what is the next instruction to execute (program counter). The output of your compiler is the output that the input program should produce. These steps are illustrated in the following gure1The remainder of this document is organized as follows:1. Grammar De nes the programming language syntax including grammar.2. Execution Semantics Describe statement semantics for if, while, switch and print state-ments.3. How to generate the intermediate representation Explains step by step how to generate the intermediate representation (data structure). You should read this sequentially and not skip around.4. Executing the intermediate representation Basically, you have two options. If you are using C/C++, you should use the code we provide to execute the intermediate representation.If you are using Java, it describes the strict rules to follow in executing the intermediate representation. Those rules will be enforced.5. Requirements Lists the programming languages you are allowed to use in your solution (C/C++ or Java) and other requirements.6. Grading Describes the grading scheme.7. Bonus Project Describes the requirements for the bonus project.2 GrammarThe grammar for this project is a simpli ed form of the grammar from the previous project, but there are a couple extensions.program ! var section bodyvar section ! id list SEMICOLONid list ! ID COMMA id list j IDbody ! LBRACE stmt list RBRACEstmt list ! stmt stmt list j stmtstmt ! assign stmt j print stmt j while stmt j if stmt j switch stmtassign stmt ! ID EQUAL primary SEMICOLONassign stmt ! ID EQUAL expr SEMICOLONexpr ! primary op primaryprimary ! ID j NUMop ! PLUS j MINUS j MULT j DIVprint stmt ! print ID SEMICOLONwhile stmt ! WHILE condition bodyif stmt ! IF condition bodycondition ! primary relop primaryrelop ! GREATER j LESS j NOTEQUALswitch stmt ! SWITCH ID LBRACE case list RBRACEswitch stmt ! SWITCH ID LBRACE case list default case RBRACE